If you use things like Gmail, Google
Calendar, Google Drive, or anything in
the Google ecosystem, then I'm about to
show you a free powerful tool that you
can add to your stack that will take
your productivity and your AI agents to
the next level. Google just handed all
of us a golden key, and it's called the
Google Workspace CLI. It's now the
easiest and most elegant way to provide
your AI agents full access to your
Google account. No need for Zapier, no
need for make.com, and no need for any
of them. So, in this video, I'm going to
show you exactly what it is, how you can
set it up in under 2 minutes, and most
importantly, how you can leverage this
with something like Cloud Code to build
the Agentic Workflows that you wish no
code tools could have done, but never
quite could. Let's get into it. All
right, so if you go on to
github.com/googleworkspace/cli,
you will see the following page. And
this goes through all the functionality,
how it works, and most importantly, how
you can set it up. Now, the install path
for someone that is technical is pretty
straightforward, but I've created a mega
prompt that will allow you to just run
this one command, run this prompt, and
let Cloud Code do all the dirty work for
you. And just in case you're
non-technical and don't even know what a
CLI is, I'll walk through what it is
conceptually, and then go through why
this one is so special. Now, CLI stands
for command line interface. And before
we used to live in a world where you had
to manually type and understand what a
command line interface for a particular
provider looked like in terms of the
different commands, the different
syntax, the different ways that you can
access all of its functionality. But
ever since getting the gift of agentic
workflows through things like cloud
code, you can now offload all the
understanding of how to use the CLI and
you and I can just use natural language
to navigate throughout. So the workflow
in a nutshell is you describe the task
and claude code writes the command and
then the command line interface executes
it. Now the core difference between a
terminal and a command line interface is
a terminal is just a blank state that
has access to your operating system.
Whereas a CLI, this one is called GWS,
Google Workspace, allows you to have a
terminal with built-in commands. Lucky
for you and I, we don't have to manually
write this command. But this is an
example of a command that you can
execute with this command line interface
that would allow you to go through your
Gmail messages. So you can see the first
part is GWS the name of the actual
command line. Then you have the service
you are targeting Gmail. Then you have
the resource of that service messages.
And then you have the action that you
want to execute. In this case you want a
list of your messages. Then you have
some parameters that are optional. And
then you go through and say how many
pages worth of context do you want. In
the world of old, you'd have to learn
this, write it on some form of sticky
note, and commit it to memory. And if
you take a look at the repo, you'll see
that it's composed of skills and what
are called recipes. It has 101 of these.
Skills are what you're now familiar
with. The ability to have these very
predictable workflows execute from
things like cloud code. And then you
have recipes which are basically SOPs of
executing different skills, commands and
workflows. So when you install the CLI,
you can interact with it through those
commands that cloud code will execute.
You can also use their MCP, their skills
or combination of all of them if needed.
So now you can say something like get my
last emails sorted by priority. I'm
about to show you five different
examples of this by the way. And then it
will run all the commands and provide
you the result. And because you don't
have to go through an intermediary like
a Zap year, like a make.com, you don't
have to worry about running costs of
executing these commands. Basically, one
zap at a time or one credit at a time.
The only thing you're concerned with is
your token usage. Now, some people find
skills overwhelming enough on their own.
So, this is a little bit of a TLDDR
cheat sheet on when you can use the CLI,
the MCP, or the skills. Now, the CLI is
the most potent of the three because you
can do whatever you want, but it's
optimized for one-off tasks. If you do
the exact same task in the exact same
way two, three, four times, it makes
sense to crystallize this process as a
skill. And then MCP was all the rave
this time last year. But now, since
skills came out, especially with their
context efficiency when it comes to
token usage, I would use in order CLI
number one, then skills once you
crystallize. And then if you feel the
need then you can go to MCP and that's
it from a conceptual standpoint. So
let's hop into the terminal and I'll
walk you through how easily you can
install this with my adjusted prompt
that I'll give you in the second link in
the description below. So step one is
you want to run this command npm
install-g
at Google Workspace CLI. Once you do
that, you should get a confirmation that
it's installed and ready to go and it's
installed globally. And then this is my
mega prompt. And I'll walk through this
prompt with you so you can see exactly
all the nuts and bolts in case you want
to change it up. So the task is to set
up the Google workspace and then we say
perform the complete setup on my behalf
using bash for terminal steps clawed
with chrome browser automation for web
steps. Now the reason why I'm using
cloud and chrome is typically if you've
ever set up any or something similar
where you have to go to your Google
project log in somehow find the APIs and
services then find the client section
then create the clients. If you're not
used to that interface it's very
overwhelming. So since we have a
language model that's so smart I just
offload that work onto cloud code since
it can use my existing browser go into
my existing Google workspace and
navigate as needed. Now, in this case, I
said, "Do not pause for confirmations.
Only stop if something truly blocks
progress." This is my personal account.
But if this is a Google Cloud account
for your business, for a company, I
would remove this part because you want
to make sure that you're babysitting
every single thing that it's
configuring. And then I say what the
objective is. I walk through what the
steps are, which are to authenticate my
Google Cloud, ensure we have fresh
credentials that it grabs, initialize
the GWS authentication, so it basically
creates a brand new service. that I'll
show you the manual way in just a
second. Then it opens the cloud console.
I already logged in, it knows that I'm
logging in with this specific account.
And if it doesn't see that to switch to
set account, then it configures the
OOTH, the authentication, creates a
local file, downloads it onto my
computer, then uses it for the setup.
And once you execute this, within a few
minutes, it will be able to go through,
use cloud and chrome, navigate to your
account, and come back with a fully
installed CLI. And you can see right
here, right after entering that prompt,
it took the wheel. It took care of
everything. Everything was authenticated
and we are now able to use it. So now
that you have it, the natural question
that will pop up is what can you do with
it? So one thing you could do is
literally ask cloud code, what can I do
with GWS? And you want to be careful in
case you have different skills that are
related to the Google ecosystem. Let's
say you've maggyvered one like I have
for Google calendar and Gmail, etc. You
want to make sure that you call out GWS
until you can decide which skills
deserve to survive versus which ones can
now be shelved. So in this case, it
walks you through and it tells you
everything that you can do. And the real
firepower is that you can combine
multiple actions to different services
in one step. And if that seems
amorphous, then just give me a second to
show you a couple prompt examples. But
it has a 101 capabilities. Like we've
said, there are some example workflows.
So in this case, I asked it. I run an AI
consultancy and a custom development
shop. What do you think are the most
pertinent skills and recipes? And then
it goes through and it breaks down which
ones might make sense for me to use
daily. So in this case, email triage,
meeting prep brief, client follow-up
automation, etc. Tier two is high
leverage, so email to task, standup
reports. And then we have tier three,
person explore, basically a pseudo
executive assistant, and that is a
version of a recipe. And then the real
play walks through some more detail. I
give it my example of my website to go
through and really give me specific
examples of where it might be helpful.
And you can do the exact same thing
whether you have a business or work in a
business or you want to use this for
your day-to-day life. Before walking
through the five examples that I've
prepped, I want to make sure that you
know where to navigate if you want to do
this manually. So all you have to do is
go to your Google Cloud, pick or create
a project, and then you want to go to
API and services. You can enter that
right here. It will take you there. So,
if you write API and services, it should
show up, especially now with their added
AI features. So, if I can type, you'll
see it right here. So, you want to click
right here. You will navigate to the
credential section and then you'll want
to create brand new credentials. When
you go and create them, again, you can
have Cloud Code help you, but you want
to create a desktop app. It'll give you
this file JSON. You download this JSON
and you provide it to Cloud Code. And
beyond that, you'll be able to execute
everything that I showed you in one
shot. Now, on to the prompts. Now, the
first example I'll show you is email
prioritization. So, this prompt is very
straightforward. Use the GWS CLI to read
my last 20 Gmail messages. For each one,
read the subject, sender, and first 200
characters of the body. Then I tell it
how to categorize them and to create a
Google sheet. And this is the power of
combining all the ecosystem and all the
services in one shot. You can go from
Google Sheet to a Google Slide to a
Google Meet in the course of one single
prompt. Now, naturally here for all of
my prompts, I have this privacy rules
section just to make sure I don't
disclose anyone's name or email in this
video. So, I can show you the end result
here, which is this Google sheet. And if
we go to said Google sheet, all of these
names, etc. are all completely fake. So,
looking at this, it has autocategorized
everything by priority. It's even
colorcoded it using Google sheet rules.
See, here's the level of depth you can
use now formatting because everything is
native to the Google ecosystem. We have
the name, the sender email, which
obviously are fake for the course of
this demo. And we're pretty much done in
one shot. The next example is going from
meetings to slide decks about said
meetings. So the exact prompt here is
use the CLI, pull my calendar events
from this week, Monday to today, count
total number of meetings, total hours in
meetings, and which three people or
groups I met with the most. Then look at
my last 30 emails. Here we're now
chaining functionality and count how
many came from each email domain. Create
Google Slides with a presentation called
weekly report with four different
slides. I tell it exactly what those
are. Now, I built this up. I didn't like
the very last slide because I couldn't
hide some privacy. So, if we take a
look, it's gonna be missing one. But you
can see right here, it memorizes the
meetings for the week and it memorizes
who I met with and the top email senders
by domain. Now, are these the most
beautiful? No. But you can create your
own skills on top of these skills to
really dial in what these Google Slides
should look like. Now, the next one, if
you're like me and have thousands of
emails when you want to look for that
needle in the haystack email from a year
and a half ago, it's always tricky what
you should enter into the search bar.
This helps you with that. So, in this
case, you could say, "Use a CLI. Search
my Gmail for email threads where the
subject contains proposal, quote,
invoice, or contract from the last 30
days." And you can imagine if you're
doing your taxes, this is super helpful
for finding those flimsy receipts that
just disappear. And then you can say for
each thread check whether I sent the
last email if I did and it was more than
5 days ago chaining instructions draft a
follow-up email using this template.
Then we provide it some template and it
goes and executes it. Now pulling on
that thread pun intended of specificity
and needle in the haststack. You can
also ask very detailed questions. So in
this case we ask the CLI to find my next
calendar event that has at least one
other attendee. get the names and email
addresses of all the attendees, search
my Gmail for any emails I've sent or
received from those people in the last
14 days, which would be helpful for
contextualization. So now we've chained
calendar, Gmail, and we chain one more
service, Google Docs. Create a Google
Doc called meeting brief event name with
these sections. Then we specify all of
them. And then it creates a beautifully
formatted inmarkdown Google doc with
everything you're asking for and more
along with a suggested agenda. So, in a
way, you have an entire executive
assistant AI agent team in a box. And
I've saved the best use case for last
because if your Google Drive looks
anything like my companies or my
personal, then this might be helpful.
So, this prompt says, "Search my Google
Drive for files that have draft, old,
copy, backup, V1 or V2 or V3 or in my
case, final one, final two, final
infinity." And for each file get the
file name, file type, last modified
date, file size, sharable link, and then
create a Google sheet called drive
audit. And this will basically map out
everything in our Google Drive. And then
we get a comprehensive list of all the
file names, all the file types, their
last modified date, their size, and we
can ask it for the sharable link if we
need. So hopefully this gives you a
glimpse of the sheer firepower that you
could have just by adding the Google
Workspace CLI to your stack. And if you
run some form of remote personal
assistant like I do on my Telegram, then
this is one huge gift for your AI
agents. And like I said, I'll make the
starter prompt to set this all up
available to you in the description
below along with these additional
prompts as well in case they inspire
even more use cases for you. If you love
tips and tricks just like this to take
you to the next level in Cloud Code,
then you'll want to check out the first
link in the description below for more
content, more tutorials, and more
skills. And for the rest of you, if you
found this video helpful, illuminating,
and concise, I'd super appreciate if you
leave a like and a comment on the video.
Really helps the reach and helps the
channel. I'll see you the next one.